\section{Introduction}\label{sec:introduction}

The semantic property of projection, traditionally associated with
presuppositions, has challenged many structure-driven formal semantic
analyses. Linguistic content is said to project if it is interpreted outside
the scope of an operator that syntactically subordinates it. This happens,
for example, if a presupposition-triggering expression is introduced within
the scope of a negation: in the sentence ``\textit{It is not the case that
the man is happy}'' the definite noun phrase ``\textit{the man}''
syntactically occurs inside the scope of the negation, but it is interpreted
as if occurring outside of its scope (corresponding to the reading: $\exists
x(man(x) \wedge \neg happy(x))$). In semantic formalisms, this behaviour has
often been treated as a deviation from standard meaning construction,
despite the prevalence of expressions exhibiting it.
%%XXX citaties: sandt1992presupposition,more?
Therefore, we have proposed a formalism that centralizes the property of
projection as a strategy for integrating material into the foregoing
context. This formalism is called Projective Discourse Representation Theory
\citeaffixed{venhuizen2013iwcs}{PDRT;}, and is an extension of Discourse
Representation Theory \cite{kamp1981theory,kamp1993discourse}. In PDRT,
presuppositions are treated as part of a larger class of \textit{projection
phenomena} \citeaffixed{simons2010projects}{cf.}, including anaphora and
conventional implicatures \cite{potts2005logic}. By associating linguistic
material with a \textit{pointer} to indicate the interpretation site, an
explicit distinction is made between the surface form of an utterance, and
its logical interpretation. The analysis can be shown to account for various
projection phenomena \citeaffixed{venhuizen2014salt}{e.g., conventional
implicatures;}. Crucially, however, adding projection pointers to all
linguistic material affects the formal properties of DRT non-trivially; the
occurrence of projected material at the interpretation site results in
non-hierarchical variable binding, and violates the traditional DRT notion
of accessible contexts, thereby compromising the basic construction
procedure.

In this paper, we will describe the formal implications of extending DRT
with projection pointers. After briefly describing the motivation behind
this DRT extension, we systematically derive the formal definitions of PDRT
from the DRT definitions for building and combining structures, and show
where they diverge (Sections~\ref{sec:building} and~\ref{sec:combining}). By
providing a translation from PDRT to DRT in Section~\ref{sec:translating},
we show that PDRT inherits all formal interpretive properties of DRT,
together with its inference mechanisms.  We introduce an implementation of
DRT and PDRT, called \textsc{pdrt-sandbox}, which implements all these
definitions, and provides a full-fledged toolkit for use in NLP
applications. In Section~\ref{sec:playing}, we offer some directions for
applying the formalism and implementation. Finally,
Section~\ref{sec:conclusions} concludes the paper.

\subsection{Discourse Representation Theory}

In the dynamic semantic framework of Discourse Representation Theory
\citeaffixed{kamp1993discourse}{DRT;}, the meaning of a discourse is
represented by means of recursive structures called `Discourse
Representation Structures' (DRSs). A DRS consists of a set of discourse
referents and a set of conditions on these referents. Conditions may be
either \textit{basic}, reflecting a property or a relation between
referents, or \textit{complex}, reflecting logical structure introduced by
semantic operators such as negation, implication, and modal operators. DRSs
are often visualized using a box-representation, with the set of referents
appearing in the top of the box, and the set of conditions on these
referents in the body.  Example \Next shows the DRS of a donkey sentence
\citeaffixed{geach1962reference}{adapted from}, containing a single complex
condition representing an implication, which itself consists of two embedded
DRSs, the first containing two referents and a set of three basic
conditions, and the second containing a single basic condition.

\ex. If a farmer owns a donkey, he feeds it.\\\hspace*{-0.2cm}
  \drs{}{
    \drs{x~~y}{farmer(x)\\ donkey(y)\\ own(x,y)}
    $\Rightarrow$
    \drs{}{feed(x,y)}}

Each (embedded) DRS can be seen as representing an \textit{context},
together reflecting the logical form of the discourse. Crucially, anaphoric
binding of referents is determined on the basis of the accessibility between
contexts; in the example above, the antecedent DRS of the implication is
accessible from the consequent DRS, and as a result the variables introduced
by the pronouns (``\textit{he}'' and ``\textit{it}'') become bound by the
referents introduced in the antecedent DRS. 

The straightforward analysis of anaphora was one of the main motivations
behind the development of DRT \cite{kamp1981theory,heim1982semantics}, but
it has been shown that the framework can account for a wide range of other
linguistic phenomena as well, including: tense \cite{kamp1981theory},
quantification \& plurality \cite{kamp1993discourse}, attitude reports
\cite{asher1986belief,asher1989belief,zeevat1996neoclassical,maier2009presupposing}
discourse structure \cite{asher2003logics}, and presupposition
\cite{sandt1992presupposition,krahmer1998presupposition,geurts1999presuppositions}.
While illustrating the flexibility the framework, the analysis of
presuppositions in particular also emphasizes some limitations of the
framework. Next, we will describe these limitations and motivate the
proposed extension to DRT.

\subsection{Beyond the surface structure}

In the DRT framework \textit{form} determines \textit{interpretation}, that
is, the context in which some content is introduced determines how it is
interpreted. Thus, if some content occurs within the (syntactic) scope of,
for example, an implication or a negation in the linguistic surface form, it
will be interpreted within the logical scope of this operator. This tight
correspondence between form and meaning challenges a parsimonious account of
presuppositions and other \textit{projection phenomena}
\citeaffixed{potts2005logic}{e.g., conventional implicatures; cf.}, as these
are generally interpreted outside the logical scope of any operator that
embeds them \citeaffixed[for an overview]{simons2010projects}{see}.  That
is, replacing the indefinite noun phrase `a farmer' in example \Last by the
proper name `John' does not just imply replacing the predicate in the
associated DRS, but it requires moving the referent and condition describing
`John' to outside the scope of the implication in order to obtain the
appropriate interpretation: there exists some person named `John', for whom
it holds that if he owns a donkey, then he feeds it.  This process of
resolving presuppositions in DRT was formalized by
\citeasnoun{sandt1992presupposition}. In the account that has become known
as `binding and accommodation theory'
\cite{geurts1999presuppositions,beaver2002presupposition,bos2003implementing},
\citename{sandt1992presupposition} treats presupposition projection as
a variety of anaphora resolution: a presupposition first occurs marked at
its introduction site, and after discourse construction it is either
\textit{bound} to an accessible antecedent, or \textit{accommodated} at an
accessible context. This is illustrated in example \Next, where the
presupposition triggered by the proper name `John' yet needs to be resolved
in Stage I \Next[a], and has been accommodated to the global context in
Stage II \Next[b].

\begin{flushleft}
\begin{minipage}{0.85\linewidth}
\begin{multicols}{2}
\ex. If John owns a donkey, he feeds it.
\a.Stage I\\\hspace*{-0.2cm}{
  \drs{}{
    \drs{y}{donkey(y)\\ own(x,y)\\ \begin{tabular}{l}\noalign{\smallskip}
        \begin{tabular}{:l:} \hdashline x\\\hdashline John(x)\\\hdashline 
       \end{tabular}\smallskip\end{tabular}}
    $\Rightarrow$
    \drs{}{feed(x,y)}}
  }
  \b.\vspace*{0.1cm}Stage II\\\hspace*{-0.2cm}{
  \drs{x}{John(x)\\
    \drs{y}{donkey(y)\\ own(x,y)}
    $\Rightarrow$
    \drs{}{feed(x,y)}}
  }

\end{multicols}
\end{minipage}\\
\end{flushleft}

\noindent Although the algorithm proposed by binding and accommodation
theory results in representations with the desired interpretation for
presuppositions, the process of arriving at this interpretation, as well as
the obtained representations, are not completely satisfactory. Firstly, the
two-stage process of deriving the representations is at odds with
a compositional construction procedure for DRSs, as presuppositions are only
resolved \textit{after} discourse construction, and the intermediate
representations with unresolved DRSs are ill-defined with respect to formal
properties like accessibility and variable binding. Secondly, since in the
final representations no distinction can be made between asserted and
presupposed content, the information structure of the discourse becomes
obliterated \cite{kracht1994logic,krahmer1998presupposition}.

%, and distinction between asserted and
%projected content (i.e., explicit information structure)

In order to provide a parsimonious account of presuppositions, as part of
the larger class of projection phenomena, we have proposed an extension to
DRT, called Projective Discourse Representation Theory
\citeaffixed{venhuizen2013iwcs}{PDRT;}, in which an explicit distinction is
made between the context in which some linguistic content is
\textit{introduced}, and where it is \textit{interpreted}, reflecting the
separation between linguistic surface form and truth-conditional
interpretation.

\subsection{Projective DRT}

In Projective Discourse Representation Theory, the basic structures carry
more information than the basic DRT structures; in addition to the
structural and referential content of a DRS, a Projective Discourse
Representation Structure (PDRS) also makes the information structure of
a discourse explicit by keeping linguistic content at its introduction site,
and indicating the interpretation site via a variable. 
Each PDRS introduces
a \textit{label} that can be used as an identifier
\citeaffixed{asher2003logics}{similar to the context identifiers implicitly
assumed by other DRT extensions, for example SDRT;}.  All referents and
conditions of a PDRS are associated with a \textit{pointer}, which is used
to indicate in which context the material is \textit{interpreted} by means
of binding the pointer to a context label.  Example \Next shows two PDRSs:
here, the labels introduced by the PDRSs are shown on top of each PDRS, and
the pointers associated with referents and conditions are indicated using
the $\gets$-operator.  Note that each PDRS also contains a footer for
describing accessibility relations between contexts; these are called
Minimally Accessible Projection contexts (\MAPs), and will be motivated
below.

\begin{flushleft}
\begin{minipage}{0.9\linewidth}
  \begin{multicols}{2}
\ex. \a. Nobody sees a~man.\\\hspace*{-0.3cm}{
  \pdrs{1}{}{
    $1\gets\neg$\pdrs{2}{$2\gets x, 2\gets y$}{
      $2\gets$person($x$)\\ $2\gets$man($y$)\\ $2\gets$see($x,y$)
    }{}
  }{}
}
\b. Nobody sees John.\\\hspace*{-0.3cm}{
  \pdrs{1}{}{
    $1\gets\neg$\pdrs{2}{$2\gets x, 5\gets y$}{
      $2\gets$person($x$)\\ $5\gets$John($y$)\\ $2\gets$see($x,y$)
    }{$2 \leq 5$}
  }{}
}

\end{multicols}
\end{minipage}\\
\end{flushleft}

\noindent In \Last[a], all pointers are bound by the label of the PDRS in
which the content is introduced, indicating asserted material which is
interpreted locally (corresponding to the non-specific reading of the
indefinite noun phrase ``a man'').  This representation is identical to the
standard DRT representation of this sentence, except for the addition of
labels to PDRSs and pointers to all referents and conditions. In \Last[b],
on the other hand, the proper name ``John'' triggers a presupposition about
the existence of someone called `John'.  The pointer associated with the
referent and condition describing this presupposition occurs free (i.e., it
is not bound by the label of any accessible PDRS), meaning that no
antecedent has been found yet; the pointer may still become bound in some
higher context during discourse construction, which means that the content
will be interpreted in that context, or it may remain free, which means that
the content needs to be accommodated
\citeaffixed{sandt1992presupposition}{the accommodation site may be
determined based on various heuristics; see}.

%%%XXX
PDRSs are enhanced with a set of \MAPs: Minimally Accessible Projection
contexts, which are basically pairs of subordinating contexts
\citeaffixed{reyle1993dealing,reyle1995reasoning}{cf.}. This additional
level of information also allows for the incorporation of other constraints
between (projected) contexts, such as those posed by embedded
presuppositions. 



